
043015 --

outside tests seem fruitful, ideas spring to head. 2d imagery best. black and white... along architechture, along body. growth

trees on skin
hand tracking, pruning trees
shadows
climbing wall
growth phase no human
add human
human watching
human interacting
human pruning
human growing
sound?



particle wind mapped
trim models falling away as particles
tree pick up, roots?
master script, timeline, scheduling, switching transitions,
bloom, glow shader?
point sprites
terrain?

tree actor 
rd sillouette
feedback kinect rgb data
looper

symetry feedback / rd -- input texture
tree grow actor
glow shader / pulse
sound

seerscript has rendernode -> inserted into and removed from graph instead of scene


higher blur intensity, low size better definition
noise people look cool




kine – Greek κινεῖν (kineîn) – movement
  trope - Greek τρόπος (tropos) – turning

Kinetrope is a plant-like life form born in virtual space, that grows towards the motion of another. In reality there are many types of tropisms[1] that give plants the impulse to grow and to be shaped in specific and unique ways. Through the creation of this specific growth algorithm and a new type of tropism, the possibilities of relationships and choreographies across boundaries becomes possible.

The motions of a body in physical reality as sensed through a depth camera, are used as scaffolding on which the virtual lifeform can grow. The process happens in real time giving the moving body a chance to witness the growth process and respond. The choreographic potential arises out of this dynamic relationship between physical body and virtual body, an interconnected exchange of motions and impulses. The dancer becomes a growing tree, and the tree becomes a dancer

I am. The tree is.
We are both close enough, to see.
We push and pull each other.

The choreography of this form developed directly from the process as an improvisational relationship. My senses responded to the shapes I saw and felt as I moved. I entered stillness, letting the Kinetrope fill my form. In stillness, I was still moving, feeling the growing form in my imagination and my body’s energetic response to the shape I was in. I reached through my legs and arms, lengthening and changing subtly, supported by the virtual process. The virtual shapes my movement through my imagination. [3]

We interact with technology every day as it is. There is a segmentation, a split between our reality and the virtual realities we see on screens and in our devices. How do we become aware of this boundary. How do we become mindful of our own needs in interacting across this boundary. The economy of interaction cannot be balanced as long as part of our selves are not being addressed. We lose our body, or parts are neglected. I explore the possibility of full body interaction across the boundaries between worlds. In relating to a Kinetrope, a channel is opened. Not only does my body’s motion through space affect the growth of these plants, but a relationship is development. I am moved by the growing tree. And it is moved by me.


  Listen:

I sit still.
On the edge of time.
Watching it drip into an abyss below.
I become a tree.

My roots stretching down, dripping too.
Pulling up a strength that fills my whole form.

I see you there, out on a lake. Young and old.
Your grandchildren and your elders.
You are moving much faster than me.
But I see, something you can’t see.

With my whole heart.
I want to tell you.
I want to bring it back and unite you,
a secret of rock, and of sky,
the way they fold and hold hands.

So I lift my feet with all my might,
I tear up earth and dance around.
I cry through storm clouds and call through windows.
The passing time, the passing time.
How it shakes me and how it stays,
soft as feathers, and cracking ice.

I hold you with my branches,
and brush you with my leaves,
I hold you in the wind,
and in your dreams.
the wild wild way. that you can see.

I tear up earth and dance around.
the ground, the ground
the fire the fire.
From inside, and out.

I move, and I stay
I fly, and I speak.
In silence and squeaks,
I sit still.


Tropism refers to the turning of all or part of an organism in a particular direction in response to an external stimulus, such as sunlight or gravity. A Kinetrope is a plant-like life form born in virtual space, that grows towards the motion of another. Through the creation of this specific growth algorithm, new relationships and choreographies spanning across the boundary to the virtual become possible.

The motions of a body in physical reality as sensed through a depth camera, are used as scaffolding on which the virtual lifeform can grow. The process happens in real time, giving the moving body a chance to witness the growth process and respond. The choreographic potential arises out of this dynamic relationship between physical body and virtual body; an interconnected exchange of motions and impulses. The dancer becomes a growing tree, and the tree becomes a dancer

I am. The tree is.
We are both close enough, to see.
We push and pull each other.
