kinetrope

I am. The tree is.

We are both close enough, to see.

We push and pull each other.

We interact with technology every day as it is. There is a segementation, a split between our reality and the virtual realities we see on screens and in our devices. How do we become aware of this boundary. How do we become mindful of our own needs in interacting across this boundary. The economy of interaction cannot be balanced as long as part of our selves are not being addressed. We lose our body, or parts are neglected. I explore the possibility of full body interaction across the boundaries between worlds. In creating a world of simulated plant biology whose growth is drawn to the kinetics of other worldly bodies, specifically our bodies in our reality, a channel is opened. Not only does my body's motion through space affect the growth of these plants, but a relationship is development. I am moved by the growing tree. And it is moved by me.

Kinetrope is a plant-like lifeform born in virtual space, that grows towards the motions of a body in physical reality, and crosses the boundary of the virtual to meet the body face to face.


Leaves, fingernails, differientiation, cyclical (winter fall)
differientiation ground and sky ( reacting to feet vs hands ) hands -> leaves, feet -> roots
how does it exists in worlds grabbing air, under water, feet, leaf feet?
printable!

name, search for name giving it existence, like a child, existence in teh world, legitimate
scientific name, make up, discovering a new species.


choreographic development, interaction with tree as meditation, 


I sit still.
On the edge of time.
Watching it drip into an abyss below.
I become a tree.

My roots stretching down, dripping too.
Pulling up a strength that fills my whole form.

I see you there, out on a lake. Young and old.
Your grandchildren and your elders.
You are moving much faster than me.
But I see, something you can’t see.

With my whole heart.
I want to tell you.
I want to bring it back and unite you,
a secret of rock, and of sky,
the way they fold and hold hands.

So I lift my feet with all my might,
I tear up earth and dance around.
I cry through storm clouds and call through windows.
The passing time, the passing time.
How it shakes me and how it stays,
soft as feathers, and cracking ice.

I hold you with my branches,
and brush you with my leaves,
I hold you in the wind,
and in your dreams.
the wild wild way. that you can see.

I tear up earth and dance around.
the ground, the ground
the fire the fire.
From inside, and out.

I move, and I stay
I fly, and I speak.
In silence and squeaks,
I sit still.


I am. The tree is.
We are both close enough, to see.
We push and pull each other.

We interact with technology every day as it is. There is a segmentation, a split between our reality and the virtual realities we see on screens and in our devices. How do we become aware of this boundary. How do we become mindful of our own needs in interacting across this boundary. The economy of interaction cannot be balanced as long as part of our selves are not being addressed. We lose our body, or parts are neglected. I explore the possibility of full body interaction across the boundaries between worlds. In creating a world of simulated plant biology whose growth is drawn to the kinetics of other worldly bodies, specifically our bodies in our reality, a channel is opened. Not only does my body’s motion through space affect the growth of these plants, but a relationship is development. I am moved by the growing tree. And it is moved by me.

Kinetrope is a plant-like life form born in virtual space, that grows towards the motions of a body in physical reality, and crosses the boundary of the virtual to meet the body face to face.

